# sp-api-open-api
This package consists of a set of OpenAPI-generated PHP clients for making calls to Amazon Selling Partner API (SP-API). For more information on this use case, please visit [https://sellercentral.amazon.com/gp/mws/contactus.html](https://sellercentral.amazon.com/gp/mws/contactus.html).

The classes for each SP-API PHP client in [src/Clients](src/Clients) were auto-generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project and organized into namespaces by the developers of Glue Systems, LLC.

The version of OpenAPI Generator Java JAR tool used for code generation was `3.3.4`, which at the time of this writing was the last stable version of OpenAPI Generator CLI that was compatible with PHP 5.

## Requirements
PHP 5 and later.

## How to Maintain or Contribute to this Repo
As new versions are released for each of the SP-API domains, it will be necessary to upgrade this repo in a systematic fashion. If you are contibuting to or maintaining this repo, please read the sections below carefully.

### Installing Legacy Versions of OpenAPI Generator
The official docs for version 3.3.4 can be found here: https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator/tree/2353d71d4b02be6dbabe25aac1a9e56eb3b812a2

One caveat is that the URL provided for downloading the Java JAR file is invalid -- particularly, the `central.maven.org` subdomain and the `http` protocol no longer work. However, if you change the subdomain to `https://repo1.maven.org` and leave the rest of the URL the same, it should download properly.

You may find it helpful in your environment to download multiple versions of the JAR file into a dedicated `bin` folder, preserving the version number in the file name itself. This would allow you to use a Bash alias to associate `openapi-generator-cli` with the desired JAR file version depending on your needs.

Example download script for Linux & Mac:

```BASH
wget https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/openapitools/openapi-generator-cli/3.3.4/openapi-generator-cli-3.3.4.jar -O openapi-generator-cli-3.3.4.jar
```

Example Bash alias declaration (e.g. in `~/.bash_profile`):

```
alias openapi-generator-cli='java -jar /path/to/your/bin/openapi-generator-cli-3.3.4.jar'
```


### Steps for Making Changes via OpenAPI Generator CLI

1. Install [the OpenAPI Generator CLI tool](https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/installation).
    - For installing a legacy version, see section [Installing Legacy Versions of OpenAPI Generator](#installing-legacy-versions-of-openapi-generator).
2. `cd` to the root of your cloned instance of this repository.
2. Clear out any existing code in your git-ignored `output` sub-directory.
3. Using your OpenAPI Generator CLI tool, generate the API client package in the following manner:

```BASH
openapi-generator-cli generate -i models/[OPENAPI_SCHEMA_NAME.json] -g php -o output/[DOMAIN_SUB_NAMESPACE] --additional-properties=invokerPackage="Glue\SPAPI\OpenAPI\Clients\[DOMAIN_SUB_NAMESPACE]"
```

4. Delete the source-controlled version of the API client that is to be replaced by the new output -- if it exists, it will be at `src/Clients/[DOMAIN_SUB_NAMESPACE]`.
5. Replace the deleted API client with the newly-generated code in `output/[DOMAIN_SUB_NAMESPACE]/lib`.
6. Check the git diff carefully. Create a new git release according to the nature of the changes (bug fixes, new features, breaking changes). Document any significant changes so that subscribers to this repository can upgrade their downstream code accordingly.

Note that following the steps above will have the same end result whether you are adding a new SP-API client or modifying an existing one.


### Example Bash Scripts
Example Bash scripts are provided below for each of the included SP-API domains. These are for reference only, as they may vary depending on your environment.


#### Listings Items API
Here are the steps for generating client classes for `ListingsItemsAPI` via OpenAPI. E are provided below as .

```BASH
cd path/to/your/sp-api-open-api
rm -rf output/ListingsItems
openapi-generator-cli generate -i models/listingsItems_2020-09-01.json -g php -o output/ListingsItems --additional-properties=invokerPackage="Glue\SPAPI\OpenAPI\Clients\ListingsItems"
rm -rf src/Clients/ListingsItems
mv output/ListingsItems/lib src/Clients/ListingsItems
```

#### Supply Sources API

```BASH
cd path/to/your/sp-api-open-api
rm -rf output/SupplySources
openapi-generator-cli generate -i models/supplySources_2020-07-01.json -g php -o output/SupplySources --additional-properties=invokerPackage="Glue\SPAPI\OpenAPI\Clients\SupplySources"
rm -rf src/Clients/SupplySources
mv output/SupplySources/lib src/Clients/SupplySources
```


#### Definitions Product Types API

```BASH
cd path/to/your/sp-api-open-api
rm -rf output/DefinitionsProduc
openapi-generator-cli generate -i models/definitionsProductTypes_2020-09-01.json -g php -o output/DefinitionsProductTypes --additional-properties=invokerPackage="Glue\SPAPI\OpenAPI\Clients\DefinitionsProductTypes"
rm -rf src/Clients/DefinitionsProductTypes
mv output/DefinitionsProductTypes/lib src/Clients/DefinitionsProductTypes
```


#### Orders V0 API

```BASH
cd path/to/your/sp-api-open-api
rm -rf output/OrdersV0
openapi-generator-cli generate -i models/ordersV0.json -g php -o output/OrdersV0 --additional-properties=invokerPackage="Glue\SPAPI\OpenAPI\Clients\OrdersV0"
rm -rf src/Clients/OrdersV0
mv output/OrdersV0/lib src/Clients/OrdersV0
```
